debug erosion
debug behaviour of plants
higher resolution of maps?
Fix breeding problem with horses?
Buckets...
Make animals flee from fire etc.


Configuration for changing water flowing speed, check if the overall flow can be increased without CPU cost. Check if we can do it more often in oceans without getting to slow.
Note that gas above oceans that are far away is updated very slowly. Only every 90 ticks!!

Settings for blocks on a "higher" level (ie. based on the type of the block). 
Game crashes when running with physics but not with water. 


Change default settings so that trees and vanilla houses are stable. 

Create "moving block" entities to animate the changes in the world? Check how it is done for gravel.

Debug/tune why animals keep dying in the world?
Make small water amounts flow *through* plants instead of destroying them. 
 
Make mycelium and giant shrooms spread automatically.  
 
Create "dirt-with-roots" blocks around trees that are stronger. 

Override tree generation code for better customization of trees? 
Other sounds for non-stone blocks that are falling
 
--- Later

Try to make it compatible with MCPC+ (forge+bukkit) 
 
------
Fix problems with light / recompute?
Buckets with partial amounts?
Too many sapplings are coming from falling trees. Use c.setBlockID instead of w.setBlockID
Make breaking block wait a bit before falling again (just like how falling blocks do?)
water on horizon not falling as rain?
  - Pass in how often the gasTicks are made on those blocks, modify condensation chance
Make "liquid construction foam" into a proper fluid?
Textures for the generators?
Test to make leaf ordinary again?
why are the sheep dying?
Customized "fall increase" depending on block type? Increase just for dirt?
shatter more rarely, but increase pressure (fall risk?) significantly in short term. (Depend on area rather than time??)
Only play one volcano sound per volcano, but continousĺy when active. Store in external datastructure. (How do I know when it is finished?)
Water should leak through both open and closed doors. Faster through open?

lower push from water (especially with small difference. Offset value?)
Special rule to avoid crops from beeing destroyed by small amounts of water?
Randomness if a gas block moves up (to spread out the evaporation a bit more)
Write on forum that more memory is needed (through the launcher)

Steam should be able to exit through an open door?!
Modify speed that crops grow by increasing it slightly?

Reduce the constant noise of falling stones... (base on distance to observer?)

Reduce the amount of stone shattering (longer time periods?)


Create hysterizis in the "overpressure" for gases exploding turbines?

Smaller evaporations underground to avoid creating steam? (1/4 chance?)

Needs to be verified
--------------------

Does the mod work when only using tree felling. 
Small liquid movements can go through plants?

Verified Bugs
-------------

Trees with branches are falling
Pistons cannot move water, since they write "air" into the water block -> create new (better) pistons instead

Cannot pump more than the first block of fuel/oil? Problem with meta value when full?

Tuning
------
Stone weaker?
When rain falls on existing water, we are currently adding TOO MUCH (it becomes an emergent phenomena!)
Lava (or other heat sources) that boils water have a chance to turn into cobblestone

(Speed of grass growing, now halved)

Length of volacano activity

Optimisation
------------
Remove redundant code in physics
Split physics into multiple parts, check time consumption and optimise

Move WorkerLiquidSweep and WorkerPhysicsSweep into one single worker, reduces number of blocksid's queried. Needs something smart about the sweeps.

Features
--------
Block for sensing liquid pressures, output in variable redstone power 
Block for sensing gas pressures, output in variable redstone power
Fuel/Oil flammability (explode?)
Create streams of falling lava in the nether
Water should add pressure (weight) to objects

Stone that breaks should become cobblestone?

New behaviour for the default ore-generator, probabilities depend on "zone". Ores drop in veins. 
Create a "difficulty" for different zones that affect creature spawn/hostility 
New gases: smoke, vaporized redstone
Smoke: should be emitted from BC engines and from furnaces
Vaporized redstone can be observed by <some block> to generate <doped block>...
Aluminium: Can be melted for liquid aluminion-oxide
Liquid aluminium oxide: can be turned to liquid aluminium by "electrodes" and lots of BC power
Liquid aluminium: turns back to oxide when exposed to air (but not other gases), slowly
Liquid aluminium + water: turns to aluminium block. Can be melted for ingots. 

Gas: oxygen, makes almost anything burn... consumed gradually by fires
Produce oxygen by "electrode" + BC-power in water
Steel by a similar process, needs raw oxygen to react?

Stone that breaks may have a chance to turn neighbouring stone into cobblestone (propagating breaks, for caveins!)
Create "temporary" observers inside a volcanoe that keeps them ticking for 200 ticks (10 seconds) OR
make clockwise sweeps that extend range of chunk distance tests. Slowly rotate, (stay in each chunk for atleast 10 seconds). 

 
Move more blocks to client through memory connection? (wait for 1.7?)
Sound effects from falling trees
Sound effects from breaking blocks

Solid stone vs. stone
Make some randomly placed stones on world gen be normal stones, so mining is more dangeours
Implement floating forces when in liquids, how to do the counters?
Figure out a way to move MORE water when it is pressurized
Let blocks break "sideways" if they have a block above them
Make some physics blocks "fragile", ie. destroy when they break.
Implement .isBlockReplacable for all liquids and gases (not needed, inherited?!)
Let pyroclastic clouds + water -> hydrochloric acid (when the right mod is installed)
Let erosion dump the removed block somewhere else.... walking towards lower presures. (Lots of special cases to deal with!)
Water/rain should help stop wild-fires


Buildcraft integration: can suck up liquids
Buildcraft integration: new block for dumping liquids 

Create list of "scary" blocks, let AI's run away from them 
Craftable tools that can break bedrock

Typhoons, Earthquakes, Tornadoes
   
 
Blocks that can generate infinite water (for creative mode only!) 
Make diamonds by having coal blocks surrounded by highly pressurized lava

Make a seismograph (detects falling blocks within a certain radius, also add activities from volcanoes (client side can use same forumla as server side)




Client side: different drawing style of lone pieces of water in the sky "rain drop"
Fires that boil water have a chance to consume the block they are burning on

----------------------- 

Test that features still work

- Verify that trees fall correctly
- Test that fluids work with buildcraft 

Good to make implementation

- Redo the initialization scripts (pre-init/post-init) since they are depracated

Missing features / "removed" for now
- Items that are overflowed by liquids

-----------------------

New Zombie AI: Tries to eat dropped brains/meat as a distraction.

Let the player / entities occupy space that pushes away water (and gases?)

Analog signals using the ChunkTempData system? 
Pressure meters? Poor material type objects (wooden pressure meters) etc can break under high pressure. Diamond etc. doesnt. 


Gravity = weight * dY

(1) Check pressure in this cell and in neighbours
(2) Force = pressure difference + gravity
(3) Move a tiny bit of liquid OUT as long as force is positive.
    Liquids can never move IN to a cell (that will happen later). 
    Schedule a tick for all cells to whom we move a unit INTO
    
(4) Recompute pressure in this cell after moving liquids
    P(c) = max_i P(i) + gravity-from(i) - 1

(5) Recompute pressure in every neighbour, 
    but considering only us if it was changed then schedule a tick for them
 
-------------

Assume that we have an infinite loop involving a chain of nodes 1...N where the nodes are repeatedly
sceduled in the order: 1,2,3, ... N, 1, 2,3 ... N etc.

Every time that node X is called, then the pressure of the neighbours of X must have changed in order for X+1 to be scheduled
The the pressure of X must have changed during this update. 
(1)  If P(X) has increased, then P(X+1) needs to be called
(2)  If P(X) has decreased, then P(X+1) needs to be called

For (1) to happen we have two cases, 




-------------

Special blocks that extends the range with which water looks for fine equilibriums and/or faster water movement in general

Save "add liquid here" + maximuze pressure when we are failing to put liquid into a cell after flow-over

Explosive behaviour when acid hits water - move half of it to neighbouring cells (also up), create fires?

New liquid: blood

Associate 'genes' to all breedable mobs
Create mob behaviour for "swimming to shore" - possibly higher priority than attacking 

Move liquids "down" much faster by explicitly looping over them 

Move partial liquids fast downwards

Non-compressible fluids:
  if content >= 8 && neighbour-with-air:
    content = 0
    add content(8, the-neighbour)
    update all blocks except block above in 1 step
    update neighbour in 5 steps (or so)
  my-pressure = max(my-pressure, neighbour-pressure-at-same-level, pressure-above+1,pressure-below -1)

Boiling water only creates gases below a pressure point depending on the type of boiler. 
Each gasturbine moves one single gas to a lower pressure point. Needs a stack of them for efficiency

Implement fluid turbines also  
  

Block below's pressure = max(block-belows-pressure, my-pressure+1)



Create higher pressure versions of fluids


in "doExpensiveTicks" check for small liquidlevels on top of another non-liquid block and schedule some extra ticks just for them. 


Use the ORIENTATION of logs to figure out what is the main trunk of a tree!!!!!

Make oil and fuel combustible so it can burn (consuming it slowly in the process)
Make burning oil/fuel turn water above it into boiling water and finally steam
Make flowing blocks for buildcraft fuel?

Make it work with
Block. Name: tile.Flowing Hydrochloric Acid. ID: 2669
Block. Name: tile.Still Hydrochloric Acid. ID: 2670



* Create a separate thread (or two) that helps all liquidTick and blockMark scheduling (this is almost half of the simulation time!)

Let water fall "through" some opaque blocks - to prevent them from beeing stuck above torches etc

Water go through fences (makes a good grate)

Recompute light levels when lava is moved / removed?

Too difficult to get OUT of water?

water flowing over an edge into a liquid with which it can interact?

- Configuration file settings
   - Additional liquids to handle (by block tile name)


- Making volcaninc eruptions
- Make it rain lava in the nether?
- Make oil cause explosions when touching lava?

- Test how the nether works
- Test how the END works
- Test mystcraft

Make a patch for mobs that are partly falling through the ground? (Both client and server side?)


Client side: sideways water drops on a block through which we may seep water?

 *  TODO: deal with waterfalls and direct erosion below them


Make trees that actually grow

Check out plasmacraft - make compatible?
http://www.minecraftforum.net/topic/1305647-151smpssp-plasmacraft-032-the-legacy-continues62212/page__hl__%20industrialcraft2


Determine best direction for trees to fall in

Small chance of evaporation into direct air?
Chance of evaporation when lava is near?


Make octupuses eat water lillies?

More plants can grow?

Make hostile mobs attack BlockEntities

Animal hearding behaviour?

Spread plants only in direct line-of-sight? (or with a random walk?)

Check that plants have sunlight, otherwise die

---- Floating blocks
When checking the "up" neighbour for a block in the Physics update, 
if it is water then treat is special. Let it keep going "up" until it find a non-liquid block. 
It it found air/gas then skip. Otherwise let it move pressures (3/4 of difference) as usual. If the 
amount moved is less than a "floatThreshold" then also update the clocks.

The "floatThreshold" is dependent on the liquid pressure of the last block visited on the way to the supported block. 

This method should not allow any self-supporting structures etc. "Should" make it possible to float.

 

---
http://www.minecraftforum.net/topic/1854988-tutorial-162-changing-vanilla-without-editing-base-classes-coremods-and-events-very-advanced/
---
